Logs clickhouse cluster data loss post mortem (#493)
PostHog/requests-for-comments: post-mortems/2026-02-20-logs-data-loss.md

# PostHog Logs Data Loss - February 20, 2026

On February 19th, PostHog's Logs ClickHouse database experienced a bug which caused it to delete a significant proportion of our Logs Product data in our US Cloud region

## Summary

For PostHog's new Logs product, we store data in a ClickHouse cluster. When we started the Logs a few months ago we made the decision to run Logs on its own ClickHouse cluster instead of adding it to our main ClickHouse cluster where we store analytics events and other PostHog data. This was so that we could move quicker, use later versions, and optimise the database for Logs specific access patterns, as well as isolating the impact of bugs or load between different products

This new cluster uses S3 disks in ClickHouse and data parts are automatically uploaded to S3 after 24 hours - this is to allow us to scale to the enormous amount of volume required for Logs, our own internal log consumption is over 500MB/s, or about 1PB/month (compressed it's about ~100TB/month)

> A bug in ClickHouse caused it to unexpectedly start deleting almost all of the data parts in S3. The database is replicated with two replicas, however very early on in the project we had set "Zero Copy Replication" on in the cluster. This is an experimental feature that ClickHouse do not recommend in production, for exactly this reason: A bug that should have caused a single replica to be deleted instead deleted the data for both replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bug in ClickHouse caused it to unexpectedly attempt to delete almost all of the data parts in S3. The Logs database is replicated, with two replicas, however very early on in the project we had enabled "Zero Copy Replication" in the Logs cluster nodes. This is an experimental feature that ClickHouse **does not recommend** in production, for exactly this reason: a bug that should have caused a single replica to be deleted instead deleted the data everywhere.
```
